so when ever we call a function inside a 
function we require a base so that we
have a limit sort of thing to stop  .



base cases in recursive functions
are typically implemented using conditional statements
like if (most common) or occasionally loops like while



Let’s simplify recursion even more with an everyday example that might feel closer to home.

Example: "Calling a Friend for Help"
Imagine you are trying to find the answer to a tough question, but you don't know the answer.
 So, you call your friend for help. Your friend also doesn’t know the answer, 
 but they call their friend, and this continues until someone knows the answer. 
 Once the person with the answer is found,
 the solution is passed back up through all the friends to you.

Here’s how it connects to recursion:

Base Case (someone who knows the answer): This is the person in the chain who knows the answer.
Once they give the solution, no more calls are made.
Recursive Case (people who don’t know the answer): Everyone who doesn’t know the answer calls someone else,
passing the problem along.
How This Works in Recursion:
If the person (function) doesn't know the answer, they ask someone else (call the function again).
When the person who knows the answer (base case) is found,
the solution is sent back to all the previous callers.
Code Example:
Let’s convert this into a code example where you want to know 
"What’s 2 + 3?" but don’t know, so you keep asking until someone tells you the answer.


def ask_friend(question, knows_answer):
    if knows_answer:  # Base case: someone knows the answer
        return "The answer is 5!"
    else:
        print(f"Calling another friend to answer: {question}")
        return ask_friend(question, True)  # Next person knows the answer



Explanation: The ask_friend function keeps calling another friend (itself)
until someone knows the answer (the base case). Once the base case is hit,
the answer is passed back through all the people.
Real-Life Analogy:
You: "I don’t know the answer. Let me call my friend."
Your friend: "I also don’t know. Let me call someone else."
Someone finally: "I know! The answer is 5!"
This keeps going until someone knows, and then the answer goes back to the first person.

Recursion in Super Simple Terms:
Recursion is just asking for help over and over again until someone knows the solution (base case).
Once the solution is found, it’s passed back up to everyone who asked for help.

Does this example help clarify recursion for you?



def factorial(n):
    if n == 0:  # Base case
        return 1
    return n * factorial(n - 1)  # Recursive case

print(factorial(5))  # Output: 120



